Update portability-analyzer.md (#12986)
dotnet/docs: docs/standard/analyzers/portability-analyzer.md

﻿---
title: The .NET Portability Analyzer - .NET
description: Learn how to use the .NET Portability Analyzer tool to evaluate how portable your code is among the various .NET implementations, including .NET Core, .NET Standard, UWP, and Xamarin.
ms.date: 07/10/2019
ms.technology: dotnet-standard
ms.assetid: 0375250f-5704-4993-a6d5-e21c499cea1e
---

> # The .NET Portability Analyzer

Reviewer: ```suggestion

# The .NET Portability Analyzer
```

## Common targets

* [.NET Core](../../core/index.md): Has a modular design, employs side-by-side, and targets cross-platform scenarios. Side-by-side allows you to adopt new .NET Core versions without breaking other apps. If your goal is to port your app to .NET Core supporting cross-platforms, this is the recommended target. 
* .[NET Standard](../../standard/net-standard.md): Includes the .NET Standard APIs available on all .NET implementations. If your goal is to make your library to run on all .NET supported platforms, this is recommended target.  

> * [ASP.NET Core](/aspnet/core): is a modern web-framework built on .NET Core thus giving developers the same benefits. If your goal is to port your web app to .NET Core supporting cross-platforms, this is the recommended target. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [ASP.NET Core](/aspnet/core): A modern web-framework built on .NET Core. If your goal is to port your web app to .NET Core to support multiple platforms, this is the recommended target.
```

> * .NET Core + [Platform Extensions](../../core/porting/windows-compat-pack.md): Includes the .NET Core APIs in addition to the Windows Compatibility Pack, which provides many of .NET Framework available technologies, so it's much easier to build .NET Core applications and .NET Core libraries. If your first step porting goal is porting your app from .NET Framework to .NET Core on Windows, this is recommended target.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* .NET Core + [Platform Extensions](../../core/porting/windows-compat-pack.md): Includes the .NET Core APIs in addition to the Windows Compatibility Pack, which provides many of the .NET Framework available technologies. This is a recommended target for porting your app from .NET Framework to .NET Core on Windows.
```

> * .NET Standard + [Platform Extensions](../../core/porting/windows-compat-pack.md): Includes the .NET Standard APIs in addition to the Windows Compatibility Pack, which provides many of .NET Framework available technologies, so it's much easier to build .NET Standard libraries. If your first step porting goal is porting your library from .NET Framework to .NET Core on Windows, this is recommended target.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* .NET Standard + [Platform Extensions](../../core/porting/windows-compat-pack.md): Includes the .NET Standard APIs in addition to the Windows Compatibility Pack, which provides many of the .NET Framework available technologies. This is a recommended target for porting your library from .NET Framework to .NET Core on Windows.
```

## How to use the .NET Portability Analyzer

> ### Pick Target Platforms

Reviewer: You should have something under the ## and not just another header like ###. I honestly don't think you need `### Pick Target Platforms`. I think the intro paragraph below gives enough information without needed an extra header. You can still keep the other headers below like `### Analyze portability`
```suggestion

```

To begin using the .NET Portability Analyzer in Visual Studio, you first need to download and install the extension from the [Visual Studio Marketplace](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ConnieYau.NETPortabilityAnalyzer). It works on Visual Studio 2017 and later versions. You can configure it in Visual Studio via **Analyze** > **Portability Analyzer Settings** and select your Target Platforms, which is the .NET platforms/versions that you want to evaluate the portability gaps comparing with the platform/version that your current assembly is built with.

![Portability screenshot](./media/portability-analyzer/portability-screenshot.png)

> To use the ApiPort console app, download it from [ApiPort repository](http://aka.ms/apiportdownload). You can  use "listTargets" command option to display the available target list, then pick target platforms by specifying -t or --target command option. 

Reviewer: I would introduce this as an alternative to visual studio... `If you do not want to use Visual Studio, ...`

There is also a double space between `can  use`

Also, use the \` inline code markdown on `listtargets`, `-t`, and `--target`

Author: fixed

### Analyze portability
To analyze your entire project in Visual Studio, right-click on your project in **Solution Explorer** and select **Analyze Assembly Portability**. Otherwise, go to the **Analyze** menu and select **Analyze Assembly Portability**. From there, select your project’s executable or DLL.

![Portability Analyzer from Solution Explorer](./media/portability-analyzer/portability-solution-explorer.png)

> If you want to use [ApiPort console app](https://aka.ms/apiportdownload). 

Reviewer: Again, introduce this as an alternative, much like the text you changed indicated.

Author: Since these two parallel approaches, instead of preferring VS tension. I tried to avoid using "don't want" kind of term. Does it make sense?  But I'm not English native speaker, I would like to hear your suggestion. :)

Reviewer: I understand, good idea! How about `You can also use the ApiPort console application ...`

Author: fixed

> * Type the following command to analyze the current directory: `\...\ApiPort.exe analyze -f .`

Reviewer: I'm confused about these `\...\`

Author: I guess it means absent of whatever relative path from current directory. I'm not the original author. Any suggestion to make it clearer?

Reviewer: I would just remove it. I don't see what benefit it gives. We always just specify the name of the command directly. I think people using the command line are familiar enough with pathing to understand that if it's not in PATH or in the current directory, they would have to specify it.

Author: fixed

* To analyze a specific list of .dll files, type the following command: `\...\ApiPort.exe analyze -f first.dll -f second.dll -f third.dll`

> * Run `\...\ApiPort.exe -?` to get more help

Reviewer: Again, what is this \`...\` commands? These seem wrong??

Author: fixed

It is recommended that you include all the related exe and dll files that you own and want to port, and exclude the files that your app depends on, but you don't own and can't port. This will give you most relevant portability report.  

### View and interpret portability result

Only APIs that are unsupported by a Target Platform appear in the report. 

> After running the analysis in Visual Studio, you'll see your .NET Portability report file link pops up. If you used [ApiPort console app](https://aka.ms/apiportdownload), your .NET Portability report is saved as a file in the format you specified. The default is in an Excel file (*.xlsx*) in your current directory. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After running the analysis in Visual Studio, you'll see your .NET Portability report file link pops up. If you used the [ApiPort console app](https://aka.ms/apiportdownload), your .NET Portability report is saved as a file in the format you specified. The default is in an Excel file (*.xlsx*) in your current directory.
```

#### Details

![Portability Details](./media/portability-analyzer/PortabilityDetails.PNG)

The Details section of the report lists the APIs missing from one of the Target Platforms. 

 - Target type: the type has missing API from a Target Platform 
 - Target member: the method is missing from a Target Platform 
 - Assembly name: the .NET Framework assembly that the missing
   API lives in. 
 - Each of the selected Target Platforms is one column, such as ".NET Core": "Not supported" value means the API is not
   supported on this Target Platform. 
 - Recommended Changes: recommended API or technology to change to. Currently, this field is empty or out of date for a lot of APIs. Due to the large number of APIs, we have big challenge to keep it up. We are looking at alternate solutions to provide helpful information to customers.

#### Missing Assemblies

> ![Portability Details](./media/portability-analyzer/MissingAssemblies.PNG)

Reviewer: These screenshots introduce a large problem. They should be in all lowercase. You must do the following to fix this, simply renaming them in Windows will not work with git.

1. Copy the pictures to a temp directory.
2. Delete the pictures here in the repo.
3. Commit the delete changes.
4. Rename the pictures to all lowercase characters
5. Commit the "new" files.

This creates two commits in your git history, one to delete the file and another to recreate it in a new name format.

Then you need to edit this article and make sure the name of the files match the lowercase file name.

Author: Fixed

> ---

Author: @Mariaw thanks for the quick response!

To use ApiPort console app, you need to download it from [ApiPort repository](https://github.com/microsoft/dotnet-apiport). It comes with both .NET Core version and .NET Framework version. You can  use "listTargets" command option to display the available target list, then pick target platforms by specifying -t or --target command option.

### Analyze portability
In Visual Studio to analyze your entire project, right-click on your project in **Solution Explorer** and select **Analyze Assembly Portability**. Otherwise, go to the **Analyze** menu and select **Analyze Assembly Portability**. From there, select your project’s executable or DLL.

![Portability Analyzer from Solution Explorer](./media/portability-analyzer/portability-solution-explorer.png)

If you want to use [ApiPort console app](https://github.com/Microsoft/dotnet-apiport/releases).

* Type the following command to analyze the current directory: `\...\ApiPort.exe analyze -f .`
* To analyze a specific list of .dll files, type the following command: `\...\ApiPort.exe analyze -f first.dll -f second.dll -f third.dll`
* Run `\...\ApiPort.exe -?` to get more help

> ### View and interpret portability result

Author: I think it still belongs to "How to use the .NET Portability Analyzer". Since "How to use the .NET Portability Analyzer" is H2, this should be H3.

Only APIs that are unsupported by a Target Platform appear in the report. 
After running the analysis in Visual Studio, you'll see your .NET Portability report pops up. 

![Portability Report](./media/portability-analyzer/portability-report.png)

If you used [ApiPort console app](https://github.com/Microsoft/dotnet-apiport/releases), your .NET Portability report is saved as a file in your specified format, default is in an Excel file (*.xlsx*) in your current directory. 

#### Portability Summary 
This session of the report gives the assembly level overall view of the portability percentage.  As in above report example, it means that 89.74% of .NET Framework APIs the ConsoleAppFramework app used are available in .NET Core + Platform Extensions v2.2. If you run .NET Portability Analyzer tool against multiple assemblies, each of the assembly should have a row in the Portability Summary report.

> #### Details

Reviewer 2: This isn't really separate from the Report Summary, is it? It seems like a children section of the Report Summary.

Author: It is separated section from Report Summary. The separation is not obvious in VS report. In the excel report, it is on a separated worksheet.

Author: Actually, the VS report image will need to be updated because the VS extension latest release had removed the VS report UI and used link to excel report file anyway. Once the report image is updated. This issue is not an concern any more.

> List the APIs missing from one of the Target Platforms. 

Reviewer 2: you need to improve the formatting here. You can see how it's rendering right now:
https://review.docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/standard/analyzers/portability-analyzer?branch=pr-en-us-12986#details

Author: fixed

Target type: the type has missing API from a Target Platform
Target member: the method is missing from a Target Platform
Header for assembly name entries: the .NET Framework assembly that the missing API lives in.
Each of the selected Target Platforms is one column, such as ".NET Core": "Not supported" value means the API is not supported on this Target Platform.
Recommended Changes: recommended API or technology to change to. Currently, this field is empty or out of date for a lot of APIs. Due to the large number of APIs, we have big challenge to keep this up. We are looking at alternate solutions to provide helpful information to customer.

> In Visual Studio,  under the **Messages** tab in the **Error List**, it displays missing APIs with caller file and line number. You can jump to problem areas directly from the **Messages** tab.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In Visual Studio, under the **Messages** tab in the **Error List**, it displays missing APIs with caller file and line number. You can jump to problem areas directly from the **Messages** tab.
```

#### Missing assemblies

> You may have a list of the assemblies in "Header for assembly name entries" column. It normally are the assemblies that your analyzed assembly reference to and they are not .NET Framework assemblies. If it's an assembly that you own, include it in the portability analyze run. If it's third party library, looks for if they have newer version supporting .NET Core or .NET Standard. If so, consider moving to the newer version.  

Reviewer 2: Where's that column? Do we need to run this against a better sample?

There are some typos here (It normally are, your analyzed assembly reference to, portability analyze run, looks for). Do you want to review this and I can propose some changes after I see your intention.

Author: @mairaw  Yes, we need update the sample image. Where should I upload the new sample images?

Author: Great idea! Updated to use https://aka.ms/apiportdownload for console app download.

---
# The .NET Portability Analyzer

Want to make your libraries multi-platform? Want to see how much work is required to make your application compatible with other .NET implementations and profiles, including .NET Core, .NET Standard, UWP, and Xamarin for iOS, Android, and Mac? The [.NET Portability Analyzer](https://github.com/microsoft/dotnet-apiport) is a tool that provides you with a detailed report on how flexible your program is across .NET implementations by analyzing assemblies. The Portability Analyzer is offered as a [Visual Studio Extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ConnieYau.NETPortabilityAnalyzer) and as a [ApiPort console app](https://github.com/Microsoft/dotnet-apiport/releases).

## New Targets

* [.NET Core](../../core/index.md): Has a modular design, employs side-by-side, and targets cross-platform scenarios. Side-by-side allows you to adopt new .NET Core versions without breaking other apps.
* [ASP.NET Core](/aspnet/core): is a modern web-framework built on .NET Core thus giving developers the same benefits.

> * .NET Core + [Platform Extensions](../../core/porting/windows-compat-pack.md): Includes the .NET Core APIs in addition to the Windows Compatibility Pack, which provides many of .NET Framework available technologies, so it's much easier to build .NET Core applications and .NET Standard libraries

Reviewer 3: I think this should say .NET Core?

```suggestion
* .NET Core + [Platform Extensions](../../core/porting/windows-compat-pack.md): Includes the .NET Core APIs in addition to the Windows Compatibility Pack, which provides many of .NET Framework available technologies, so it's much easier to build .NET Core applications and .NET Core libraries
```

> * .NET Standard + [Platform Extensions](../../core/porting/windows-compat-pack.md): Includes the .NET Standard APIs in addition to the Windows Compatibility Pack, which provides many of .NET Framework available technologies, so it's much easier to build .NET Core applications and .NET Standard libraries.

Reviewer 3: Should this mention apps at all?

```suggestion
* .NET Standard + [Platform Extensions](../../core/porting/windows-compat-pack.md): Includes the .NET Standard APIs in addition to the Windows Compatibility Pack, which provides many of .NET Framework available technologies, so it's much easier to build .NET Standard libraries.
```

* [Universal Windows Platform](/uwp): Improve performance of your Windows Store apps that run on x64 and ARM machines by using .NET Native’s static compilation. 

## How to use the .NET Portability Analyzer

### Pick Target Platforms

> To begin using the .NET Portability Analyzer in Visual Studio, you first need to download and install the extension from the [Visual Studio Marketplace](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ConnieYau.NETPortabilityAnalyzer). It works on Visual Studio 2017 and later versions. You can configure it in Visual Studio via **Analyze** > **Portability Analyzer Settings** and select your Target Platforms, which is the .NET platforms/versions that you want to evaluate the portability gaps comparing with the platform/version that your current assemblies built with.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To begin using the .NET Portability Analyzer in Visual Studio, you first need to download and install the extension from the [Visual Studio Marketplace](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ConnieYau.NETPortabilityAnalyzer). It works on Visual Studio 2017 and later versions. You can configure it in Visual Studio via **Analyze** > **Portability Analyzer Settings** and select your Target Platforms, which is the .NET platforms/versions that you want to evaluate the portability gaps comparing with the platform/version that your current assembly is built with.
```

Reviewer 3: I don't know why the above comment doesn't highlight the diff. "assemblies build with" should either be "assembly's built with", "assembly is built with", or "assemblies are built with".

![Portability screenshot](./media/portability-analyzer/portability-screenshot.png)

> To use the ApiPort console app, download it from [ApiPort repository](https://github.com/microsoft/dotnet-apiport). It comes with both .NET Core version and .NET Framework version. You can  use "listTargets" command option to display the available target list, then pick target platforms by specifying -t or --target command option.

Reviewer 3: Is there not a direct download link for the tool somewhere?

Author: No, the tool is not released anywhere other than the github repo.

Reviewer 3: Might I suggest we point directly to https://github.com/microsoft/dotnet-apiport/releases?

Reviewer 3: Apparently, @terrajobst owns http://aka.ms/apiport. I suggest we use that, and perhaps request co-ownership of that link.

Reviewer 3: hmmm. it doesn't point to releases. I still think we should use it, and maybe update the text to indicate you should download it from the releases tab. Or make aka.ms/apiportdownload. I'll leave it up to you. I've made too many comments :)

### Analyze portability

> In Visual Studio to analyze your entire project, right-click on your project in **Solution Explorer** and select **Analyze Assembly Portability**. Otherwise, go to the **Analyze** menu and select **Analyze Assembly Portability**. From there, select your project’s executable or DLL.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To analyze your entire project in Visual Studio, right-click on your project in **Solution Explorer** and select **Analyze Assembly Portability**. Otherwise, go to the **Analyze** menu and select **Analyze Assembly Portability**. From there, select your project’s executable or DLL.
```

* .NET Standard + [Platform Extensions](../../core/porting/windows-compat-pack.md): Includes the .NET Standard APIs in addition to the Windows Compatibility Pack, which provides many of .NET Framework available technologies, so it's much easier to build .NET Standard libraries. If your first step porting goal is porting your library from .NET Framework to .NET Core on Windows, this is recommended target.  

## How to use the .NET Portability Analyzer

### Pick Target Platforms
To begin using the .NET Portability Analyzer in Visual Studio, you first need to download and install the extension from the [Visual Studio Marketplace](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ConnieYau.NETPortabilityAnalyzer). It works on Visual Studio 2017 and later versions. You can configure it in Visual Studio via **Analyze** > **Portability Analyzer Settings** and select your Target Platforms, which is the .NET platforms/versions that you want to evaluate the portability gaps comparing with the platform/version that your current assembly is built with.

![Portability screenshot](./media/portability-analyzer/portability-screenshot.png)

> To use the ApiPort console app, download it from [ApiPort repository](http://aka.ms/apiportdownload). It comes with both .NET Core version and .NET Framework version. You can  use "listTargets" command option to display the available target list, then pick target platforms by specifying -t or --target command option.

Reviewer 4: The download I believe only comes with .NET Framework at the moment.

Author: Good catch, fixed by removing the statement.

### Analyze portability
To analyze your entire project in Visual Studio, right-click on your project in **Solution Explorer** and select **Analyze Assembly Portability**. Otherwise, go to the **Analyze** menu and select **Analyze Assembly Portability**. From there, select your project’s executable or DLL.

![Portability Analyzer from Solution Explorer](./media/portability-analyzer/portability-solution-explorer.png)

If you want to use [ApiPort console app](https://aka.ms/apiportdownload).

> * Type the following command to analyze the current directory: `\...\ApiPort.exe analyze -f .`

Reviewer 4: Can you add something to the effect that you only want to submit user assemblies?

Author: Added some guidance about this

After running the analysis in Visual Studio, you'll see your .NET Portability report file link pops up. If you used [ApiPort console app](https://aka.ms/apiportdownload), your .NET Portability report is saved as a file in the format you specified. The default is in an Excel file (*.xlsx*) in your current directory. 

#### Portability Summary 

![Portability Summary](./media/portability-analyzer/PortabilitySummary.PNG)

The Portability Summary section of the report shows the the portability percentage for each assembly included in the run. In the previous example, 89.74% of the .NET Framework APIs used in the `ConsoleAppFramework` app are available in .NET Core + Platform Extensions v2.2. If you run the .NET Portability Analyzer tool against multiple assemblies, each assembly should have a row in the Portability Summary report.

#### Details

![Portability Details](./media/portability-analyzer/PortabilityDetails.PNG)

The Details section of the report lists the APIs missing from one of the Target Platforms. 

 - Target type: the type has missing API from a Target Platform 
 - Target member: the method is missing from a Target Platform 

>  - Header for assembly name entries: the .NET Framework assembly that the missing

Reviewer 4: This header is a bug - there's an issue for it that we discussed and @Lxiamail was going to verify is already fixed (not sure what the status is). Needs to be ingested into the service

Author: Fixed the header

   API lives in. 
 - Each of the selected Target Platforms is one column, such as ".NET Core": "Not supported" value means the API is not
   supported on this Target Platform. 
 - Recommended Changes: recommended API or technology to change to. Currently, this field is empty or out of date for a lot of APIs. Due to the large number of APIs, we have big challenge to keep it up. We are looking at alternate solutions to provide helpful information to customers.

#### Missing Assemblies

![Portability Details](./media/portability-analyzer/MissingAssemblies.PNG)

> You may find a Missing Assemblies section in your report. It has a list of the assemblies in "Header for assembly name entries" column. It normally are the assemblies that your analyzed assembly reference to and they are not .NET Framework assemblies. If it's an assembly that you own, include it in the portability analyze run. If it's third party library, looks for if they have newer version supporting .NET Core or .NET Standard. If so, consider moving to the newer version.  

Reviewer 4: The third sentense reads weird. Should may be: These are assemblies that your analyzed assembly references but could not be found by the analyzer.

Also, a comment to the fact that there is nothing wrong with having missing assemblies; they just weren't analyzed. We've discussed renaming it to "Unresolved Assemblies" instead for that reason.

Author: Updated to address the feedback.
